In this course, course 10,
we're covering the
exFAT file system.
In this module, we're
going to talk about
the exFAT volume boot record.
The exFAT volume boot
record is located
at physical sector
0 of the volume.
It contains information
about the volume.
The offsets you're
going to see in
the table to the left
of the slide are
relative to the start of
the logical volume itself.
That would be like your C volume,
your D volume, your E volume.
They're not relative
to the physical disk.
We can see, we have quite
a bit of information and
the information highlighted in
yellow are the structures
we're going to talk about.
So we see we can tell
what file system we have.
You'll have the number
of hidden sectors,
the number of total sectors.
We have our first FAT sector,
and we're going to see
our total clusters,
the location of the root cluster
that will contain
our root directory.
We'll have a volume
serial number,
bytes per sector shift.
Now that means byte per sectors,
we'll talk a little bit
about that in a minute.
Then we see below that
sectors per cluster shift,
and what that does mean
is sectors per cluster.
You're also going to
see the number of FATs,
which will usually
be one in exFAT,
and then we will have
down at the bottom
our boot sector
signature of 55 AA.
Now getting back to
bytes per sector,
what you're going to
see there is a value
between nine and 12.
It'll be in hexadecimal,
and this value is going
to be two to the power
of whatever number we
have between nine and 12.
It can be anywhere
from 512 bytes per
sector to 4,096 bytes per sector,
and it's the same concept
on the sectors per cluster.
You're going to have a
number there that will
range between 0 and 25.
Again that number,
it will be two to
whatever that number is
that you have
between zero and 25,
and that can give us as
many possible zeros.
It's somewhere between
1 and 33,554,432.
That's quite a large number
of sectors per cluster.
But again, this file system is
designed for large volumes.
We're going to do a
walk-through now of
the exFAT volume boot record.
The items we're going to need for
our walkthrough are
we're going to need
active disk editor and our
exFAT VHD, virtual hard drive.
Let's start our walkthrough.
The first thing we need to
do is attach our exFAT VHD.
We're going to open
up disk management,
we're going to go to
Actions, attach VHD.
We're going to navigate
out to where we
saved our exFAT VHD.
Mine is on my desktop.
We're going to select exFAT VHD,
we're going to click Open,
and then you're going
to go ahead and click
Okay and your VHD will mount.
Once we've done that,
we're going to locate
the VHD that we mounted.
It should be labeled exFAT.
For me, it's physical Disk 13,
logical drive F boot
up volume level,
you can see here of exFAT,
and it's a 182 megabytes.
Make sure you have
the correct drive,
remember the drive, the
physical disk number,
and the logical drive letter.
Now let's go ahead and
launch Active Disk Editor.
Once Active Disk Editor opens up,
we're going to
select "Open disk."
Now we're going to
select volumes.
Because we want to look
at the logical volume,
and then we're going to
select our exFAT file system.
Mine is right here, drive F,
you drive letter, will
probably be different.
Once you've located
it select it and
click ''Open,'' and
it will open up.
Now, it takes us right to
the volume boot record,
and we can see
right at the top of
the volume boot
record in the ASCII,
up here we see the words EXFAT,
and this is the type of
file system that
we're looking at.
If you're not seeing
what I'm seeing,
check your template to
make sure you're on
exFAT boot sector,
and go ahead and
right-click "Set Template
Position," and you'll
be able to see that.
We have our jump instructions,
and then we have our
file system here
highlighted in green,
identified as exFAT.
Moving down, we can see we
have our hidden sectors.
We have our total sectors.
Our hidden sectors are
located right here.
If we look at the value of that,
we can see it's
interpreted for us.
It's 32,768 hidden sectors.
Then we have our total sectors,
the total sectors on the drive.
We want to know that
because we want to
be able to account
for all the space on the drive.
We can see that
number is 372,736,
and it is located right here.
If we were to go ahead
and highlight that,
and then take a look down
at our hex interpreter,
we can see it is a
32-bit unsigned integer,
and we do have the same
number of 372,736,
which is what we have up here
also in our total sectors.
We can see that our tool is
interpreting it correctly.
We have our first FAT sector.
This is where the FAT
table is located,
the first sector
of our FAT table,
and that's going
to be sector 128.
We have the total number of
sectors in the FAT table,
and that is 368 total sectors.
We also have our total
clusters on the drive,
which is going to be 46,528.
Our root cluster is
going to be cluster 6,
which is what we would
expect it to be.
We have our serial number
and hexadecimal over here.
This is where we
have our bytes per
sector shift and our
sectors per cluster shift.
Now, you can see are bytes
per sector shift says nine,
so what we would have to do
is we're going to bring up
the Windows calculator,
we're going to put it
to scientific view,
and we remember it
would be two to
the power of nine to
find that number.
What we'd do is we'll do
two and go to the x^y,
and then go to nine equals 512.
We have 512 bytes per sector.
Now when we look at our
sector per cluster shift,
which is right next to it,
which is a three,
we'd do the same calculation.
We'd go two to the third power,
so it'd be 2, the
x^y, 3 equals 8.
We have eight
sectors per cluster.
Five-hundred-and-twelve
bytes per sector,
and eight sectors per cluster,
and that would be
how you would read
the sector and cluster shifts.
The number of FATs is one,
which is what you would
expect to see in exFAT.
Then we have our signature
down at the bottom of 55, AA.
That will conclude
our walk-through
of the exFAT volume boot record.
In our next module,
we're going to take a look
at the exFAT root directory
in how we interpret
the entries in the
exFAT root directory.